its atmosphere also contains icy clouds and the fastest winds recorded in the solar system.
6 billion years ago by the collapse of a giant molecular cloud.
the oort cloud is a theorised shell of icy objects that lie beyond the kuiper belt, as such the facts detailed on this page are hypothetical.
the oort cloud is an extended shell of icy objects that exist in the outermost reaches of the solar system.
the oort cloud is roughly spherical, and is thought to be the origin of most of the long-period comets that have been observed.
this cloud of particles is theorized to be the remains of the disc of material that formed the sun and planets.
the most likely theory is that the material now in the oort cloud probably formed closer to the young sun in the earliest epochs of solar system formation.
as the planets grew, and in particular as jupiter coalesced and migrated to its present position, its gravitational influence is thought to have scattered many icy objects out to their present position in the oort cloud.
the oort cloud is very distant from the sun and it can be disrupted by the nearby passage of a star, nebula, or by actions in the disk of the milky way.
the inner limits of the oort cloud begin at about 2, 000 au from the sun.
the cloud itself stretches out almost a quarter of the way to the nearest star, proxima centauri.
it is spherically shaped and consists of an outer cloud and a torus (doughnut-shaped) inner cloud.
comets normally orbit the sun, and have their origins in the oort cloud and kuiper belt regions of the outer solar system.
the andromeda galaxy is part of this group as are numerous smaller galaxies, including the magellanic clouds.
they began their galactic dance over a few hundred million years ago and are currently in a period where their colliding gas clouds are bursting with new star formation.
the large magellanic cloud is a nearby galaxy once considered to be an irregular type until astronomers studied it more closely.
the lmc (as it is known) is visible in earth’s southern hemisphere skies, along with its companion dwarf galaxy, the small magellanic cloud (smc).
the milky way is consuming gas that is flowing from the magellanic clouds (in the magellanic stream).
most ellipticals contain older, low-mass stars, and because they lack a great deal of star-making gas and dust clouds, there is little new star formation occurring in them.
the best example of an irregular that can be seen from earth is the small magellanic cloud.