the valles marineris is an extensive canyon system on the mars equator.
that set the stage for the formation of the valles marineris.
there are 5 officially recognised dwarf planets in our solar system, they are ceres, pluto, haumea, makemake and eris.
dwarf planets share many of the same characteristics as planets though there is one significant difference.
the largest dwarf planet in the solar system is pluto followed by eris, makemake, haumea, with the smallest being ceres.
the order of the dwarf planets from closest to sun outwards is ceres, pluto, haumea, makemake, with eris being the furthest from the sun.
pluto is the largest dwarf planet but only the second most massive, with eris being the most massive.
eris is the most distant dwarf planet from the sun and has the greatest mass.
eris is the second largest dwarf planet (very a close second to pluto) and at one point was considered for the position of the 10th planet.
eris’ discovery promoted discussion that eventually lead to the classification of ‘dwarf planets’.
astronomers sort galaxies into three main types by their shapes: spirals, ellipticals, and irregulars, and further divide them into subtypes based on their particular characteristics.
it uses the three main types: then further breaks them down by specific characteristics (openness of spirals, size and extent of bars, size of galactic bulges).
in this age of multi-wavelength observing, the sub-classifications also include markers for such characteristics as a galaxy’s star-formation rate and age spectrum of its stars.
subgroups of spirals are defined by the characteristics of their bulges, spiral arms, and how tightly wound those arms are.
irregulars usually do not have enough structure to characterise them as spirals or ellipticals.
irregulars are characterised by their structures (or lack of them).
the innermost moons are similar in characteristics with the thin rings.
mk 2 – s/2015 (136472) 1eris’ only known moon was discovered in 2005 by mike brown and the adaptive optics team at the w. m. keck observatory.