a galaxy is a massive, gravitationally bound system that consists of stars, stellar objects (such as brown dwarfs and neutron stars), nebulae, an interstellar medium of gas and dust, black holes, and an unknown component of dark matter.
examples of galaxies range from dwarfs with as few as ten million stars to giants with a hundred trillion stars or more, each orbiting through their galaxy.
the milky way galaxy is our home galaxy in the universe.
the andromeda galaxy is part of this group as are numerous smaller galaxies, including the magellanic clouds.
sources: the milky way galaxy – skysurvey.
the andromeda galaxy (m31) is the closest large galaxy to the milky way and is one of a few galaxies that can be seen unaided from the earth.
5 billion years the andromeda galaxy and the milky way are expected to collide and the result will be a giant elliptical galaxy.
andromeda is accompanied by 14 dwarf galaxies, including m32, m110, and possibly m33 (the triangulum galaxy).
the massive galaxy m87 is the most spectacular example of an elliptical galaxy we can see from earth.
the most fascinating feature of this galaxy is its jet, which is visible in optical light as well as x-rays and radio emissions.
the jet extends from the central supermassive black hole of the galaxy and reaches out about 5, 000 light-years.
as a true elliptical galaxy, m87 has no obvious dust lanes and very little evidence of star formation.
it will be surrounded by an elliptical galaxy of old stars.
the large magellanic cloud is a nearby galaxy once considered to be an irregular type until astronomers studied it more closely.
the lmc (as it is known) is visible in earth’s southern hemisphere skies, along with its companion dwarf galaxy, the small magellanic cloud (smc).
the pinwheel galaxy in the constellation ursa major (the greater bear) is a “grand design” spiral, meaning that it has well-defined spiral arms and dust lanes that extend all the way around the body of the galaxy.
the sombrero galaxy is one of the most unusual looking barred spiral galaxies visible from earth.
the dust lane is a ring that circles the bulge of the galaxy, and it is rich with gas, dust, and hydrogen gas.
the triangulum galaxy, also known as m33, is one of the closest spiral galaxies to the milky way.
the closest spiral is the andromeda galaxy, at a distance of 2.
the whirlpool galaxy is a familiar one to stargazers and among the many close galaxy neighbours to our own milky way.
because of its shape, it was the first galaxy to be classified as a spiral by astronomers.
in this age of multi-wavelength observing, the sub-classifications also include markers for such characteristics as a galaxy’s star-formation rate and age spectrum of its stars.
our milky way is a spiral, as is the rather close-by andromeda galaxy.
the central bright region at the core of a galaxy is called the “galactic bulge”.
a large majority of galaxies have these bars, and astronomers study them to understand what function they play within the galaxy.
elliptical galaxies are roughly egg-shaped (ellipsoidal or ovoid) found largely in galaxy clusters and smaller compact groups.
astronomers now suspect that every elliptical has a central supermassive black hole that is related to the mass of the galaxy itself.
messier 87 is an example of an elliptical galaxy.
galaxy illustrations: laurine moreau – laurinemoreau.