there are 8 planets in our solar system, they are mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and neptune.
click on any planet below to find out more about it: the order of the planets from closest to the sun outwards is; mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and finally neptune.
the largest planet in the solar system is jupiter, followed by saturn, uranus, neptune, earth, venus, mars with the smallest being mercury.
the four gas giants in our solar system are jupiter, saturn, uranus, and neptune.
jupiter, uranus and neptune also have rings, and at least one asteroid is known to have a small ring as well.
jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system and is the fifth planet out from the sun.
situated 22° south of jupiter’s equator, the great red spot is a storm that has been raging for at least 186 years.
however, it is unknown whether this is the same red spot that we see today, or whether jupiter has had many such storms that have come and gone.
jupiter’s atmosphere is the solar system’s largest planetary atmosphere.
gov/planets/jupiter/overview/, https: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/jupiterfact.
org/multimedia/space-images/jupiter/20120906_jupiter_vgr1_global_caption.
like jupiter, saturn is a gas giant and is composed of similar gasses including hydrogen, helium and methane.
ceres is the closest dwarf planet to the sun and is located in the asteroid belt, between mars and jupiter, making it the only dwarf planet in the inner solar system.
the asteroid belt is located in an area of space between the orbits of mars and jupiter.
as the planets grew, and in particular as jupiter coalesced and migrated to its present position, its gravitational influence is thought to have scattered many icy objects out to their present position in the oort cloud.
asteroids are small, rocky solar system bodies that populate interplanetary space out to the orbit of jupiter.
most of them orbit the sun between mars and jupiter, although there are groups of them that orbit closer.
in addition, comet shoemaker-levy 9 (d/1993 f2) was spotted after it had broken up after a close call with jupiter.
more than a year later, the pieces of the comet crashed into jupiter.
phobos & deimosjupiter is swarming with at least 79 moons in orbit around it, the second largest number of natural satellites around any of the planets.
jupiter’s 4 largest moons; ganymede, callisto, io and europa are known as the galilean moons, named after their discoverer galileo galilei.
europa is the smallest of jupiter’s galilean moons and the second closest, however it is still the sixth largest moon in the solar system.
ganymede is jupiter’s largest moon and also the largest moon in the solar system.
callisto is the second largest moon in the jupiter system and is nearly the size of mercury.
it is the most distant of the galilean moons from jupiter.