there are 8 planets in our solar system, they are mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and neptune.
click on any planet below to find out more about it: the order of the planets from closest to the sun outwards is; mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and finally neptune.
the largest planet in the solar system is jupiter, followed by saturn, uranus, neptune, earth, venus, mars with the smallest being mercury.
the four innermost planets of our solar system (mercury, venus, earth and mars) are called the “terrestrial” planets.
earth is the only one with liquid oceans, although mars may have had them in the past.
mars is the fourth planet from the sun and is the second smallest planet in the solar system.
named after the roman god of war, mars is also often described as the “red planet” due to its reddish appearance.
mars is a terrestrial planet with a thin atmosphere composed primarily of carbon dioxide.
mars has two small moons, phobos and deimos.
mars has the largest volcano in the solar system – olympus mons.
the valles marineris is an extensive canyon system on the mars equator.
mars has has a very primitive form of plate tectonics, and the action of two plates past each other began splitting the surface some 3.
gov/planets/mars/overview/ , https: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/marsfact.
gov/maps/mars-viking-hemisphere-point-perspectives first published: june 2012last updated: may 2020author: chris jones
ceres is the closest dwarf planet to the sun and is located in the asteroid belt, between mars and jupiter, making it the only dwarf planet in the inner solar system.
the vast majority of asteroids in the solar system are found in a region of the solar system out beyond mars.
the asteroid belt is located in an area of space between the orbits of mars and jupiter.
most of them orbit the sun between mars and jupiter, although there are groups of them that orbit closer.
these fragments may also be leftover comet debris, or were ejected in collisions between other solar system bodies such as the moon or mars.
the moonmars has two moons called phobos and deimos.
phobos is one of the two moons of mars.
deimos is the smaller of the two moons of mars.