-earth has 1 moon and 2 co-orbital satellites as you’re probably aware, earth has 1 moon (the moon).
we won’t go into too much detail about the moon, i’m sure you’ve heard all about it.
3753 cruithne is 5 km across, and sometimes called earth’s second moon.
mars has two small moons, phobos and deimos.
these moons are thought to be captured asteroids and are among the smallest natural satellites in the solar system.
a ring system around a planet or asteroid is a disk made up of dust, chunks of material (ice, in the outer solar system), and small moons.
these are made up of chunks of ice and rock, believed to have come from asteroids comets or even moons, that broke apart before they reached the planet.
the f ring is kept in place by two of saturn’s moons, prometheus and pandora, these are referred to as ‘shepherd moons’.
makemake was discovered on march 31st 2005 and was recognized as a dwarf planet by the international astronomical union (iau) in july 2008. until april 2016 makemake was thought to be the only one of the four outer dwarf planets to not have any moons.
a solar eclipse is a natural event that takes place on earth when the moon moves in its orbit between earth and the sun (this is also known as an occultation).
it happens at new moon, when the sun and moon are in conjunction with each other.
if the moon was only slightly closer to earth, and orbited in the same plane and its orbit was circular, we would see eclipses each month.
depending on the geometry of the sun, moon and earth, the sun can be totally blocked, or it can be partially blocked.
during an eclipse, the moon’s shadow (which is divided into two parts: the dark umbra and the lighter penumbra) moves across earth’s surface.
a total solar eclipse occurs when the moon completely blocks the solar disk.
in a total solar eclipse, the narrowest part of the path (where the sun is completely blocked and the moon casts its darkest shadow (called the umbra)) is called the “zone of totality”.
in the past, the moon was too close to earth and during eclipses it completely blotted out the sun’s disk.
however, the moon’s orbit will continue to widen, and in perhaps 600 million years, total solar eclipses will no longer occur.
when the moon is farther away in its orbit than usual, it appears too small to completely cover the sun’s disk.
during such an event, a bright ring of sunlight shines around the moon.
however, even though the sun is mostly covered by the moon, enough bright sunlight escapes during annularity that observers cannot ever look at the sun directly.
a partial solar eclipse occurs when earth moves through the lunar penumbra (the lighter part of the moon’s shadow) as the moon moves between earth and the sun.
the moon does not block the entire solar disk, as seen from earth.
planetary scientists estimate that if you could put all that material together that exists there today, it would make a tiny world smaller than earth’s moon.
the planetary science community refers to them as minor planets, a general term applied to solar system bodies smaller than moons.
these fragments may also be leftover comet debris, or were ejected in collisions between other solar system bodies such as the moon or mars.
there are more than 194 moons of the various planets, dwarf planets in the solar system.
the planets mercury and venus do not have any moons and neither does the dwarf planet ceres.
find out the number of moons each planet has and their names below.
the earth has a single moon; the moon sometime also referred to as luna.
the moonmars has two moons called phobos and deimos.
these moons are thought to be captured asteroids and are among the smallest natural satellites in the solar system.
phobos & deimosjupiter is swarming with at least 79 moons in orbit around it, the second largest number of natural satellites around any of the planets.
jupiter’s 4 largest moons; ganymede, callisto, io and europa are known as the galilean moons, named after their discoverer galileo galilei.
galilean moons – io, europa, ganymede & callistoinner moons – metis, adrastea, amalthea & thebeother moons – themisto, leda, himalia, lysithea, elara, s/2000 j 11, carpo, s/2003 j 12, euporie, s/2003 j 3, s/2003 j 18, s/2011 j 1, s/2010 j 2, thelxinoe, euanthe, helike, orthosie, iocaste, s/2003 j 16, praxidike, harpalyke, mneme, hermippe, thyone, ananke, herse, aitne, kale, taygete, s/2003 j 19, chaldene, s/2003 j 15, s/2003 j 10, s/2003 j 23, erinome, aoede, kallichore, kalyke, carme, callirrhoe, eurydome, s/2011 j 2, pasithee, s/2010 j 1, kore, cyllene, eukelade, s/2003 j 4, pasiphae, hegemone, arche, isonoe, s/2003 j 9, s/2003 j 5, sinope, sponde, autonoe, megaclite & s/2003 j 2saturn has at least 82 moons orbiting it, some of them inside the ring system which helps shape the rings.
they range from very tiny worlds of less than a kilometer in diameter to spherical moons such as titan.
the first of saturn’s moons to be observed was titan in 1655 by christiaan huygens, another moon was not found until 1671 when giovanni domenico cassini discovered iapetus.
two of saturn’s moons (janus & epimetheus) swap orbits every 4 years.
notable moons – titan, enceladus, iapetus, rhea, mimas, tethys & dione.
other moons – s/2009 s 1, pan, daphnis, atlas, prometheus, pandora, epimetheus, janus, aegaeon, methone, anthe, pallene, telesto, calypso, helene, polydeuces, hyperion, kiviuq, ijiraq, phoebe, paaliaq, skathi, albiorix, s/2007 s 2, bebhionn, erriapus, skoll, siarnaq, tarqeq, s/2004 s 13, greip, hyrrokkin, jarnsaxa, tarvos, mundilfari, s/2006 s 1, s/2004 s 17, bergelmir, narvi, suttungr, hati, s/2004 s 12, farbauti, thrymr, aegir, s/2007 s 3, bestla, s/2004 s 7, s/2006 s 3, fenrir, surtur, kari, ymir, loge & fornjoturanus is known to have 27 in orbit around it.
the innermost moons are similar in characteristics with the thin rings.
the five largest moons are rounded, and four of them show some kind of internal activity which shapes their surfaces.
william herschel who discovered uranus in 1781 also observed the largest two moons, titania and oberon, in 1787. notable moons – miranda, titania, ariel, umbriel & oberonother moons – cordelia, ophelia, bianca, cressida, desdemona, juliet, portia, rosalind, cupid, belinda, perdita, puck, mab, francisco, caliban, stephano, trinculo, sycorax, margaret, prospero, setebos & ferdinandneptune has at least 14 moons.
the largest of these, triton was discovered by william lassell in 1846 one day after the discovery of neptune, it was more than 100 years later before a second moon was found.
the most distant moon of neptune is called neso, and orbits so far away that it takes 26 years to make one trip around the planet.
notable moons – triton, nereid & proteusother moons – naiad, thalassa, despina, galatea, larissa, s/2004 n 1, halimede, sao, laomedeia, psamathe & nesohydra, nyx, styx, and kerberos are the smaller moons of pluto.
these four moons rotate chaotically on their axes.
these moons were likely created during a giant collision, which scattered these tiny worlds into orbit around pluto and charon.
notable moon – charonother moons – nix, hydra, kerberos & styxboth of haumea’s moons were discovered in 2005 from observations made by the w. m. keck observatory.
hi’iaka & namakamakemake’s moon was discovered in april 2016 in observations by by the hubble space teletype.
mk 2 – s/2015 (136472) 1eris’ only known moon was discovered in 2005 by mike brown and the adaptive optics team at the w. m. keck observatory.
the moon (or luna) is the earth’s only natural satellite and was formed 4.
the moon is in synchronous rotation with earth meaning the same side is always facing the earth.
the first uncrewed mission to the moon was in 1959 by the soviet lunar program with the first crewed landing being apollo 11 in 1969.
phobos is one of the two moons of mars.
it is the larger of the two moons, and is heavily cratered and appears to have grooves and streaks of material along its sides.
deimos is the smaller of the two moons of mars.
like its sibling moon phobos, it has a dusty “regolith” covered surface, and is made of rocky material.
io is the innermost and the second smallest of the four galilean moons.
europa is the smallest of jupiter’s galilean moons and the second closest, however it is still the sixth largest moon in the solar system.
ganymede is jupiter’s largest moon and also the largest moon in the solar system.
callisto is the second largest moon in the jupiter system and is nearly the size of mercury.
it is the most distant of the galilean moons from jupiter.
enceladus is the sixth-largest moon of saturn and, after titan, one of the most-studied worlds in the system.
rhea is saturn’s second largest moon and is the ninth largest moon in the solar system.
rhea was discovered in 1672 by giovanni domenico cassini and was the third of saturn’s moons to be found.
titan is the saturn’s largest moon and is the second largest moon in our solar system.