browse an exciting collection of scientific, historical and cultural facts about space, galaxies, the planets and other objects in the solar system.
planets are among the many worlds and smaller objects that orbit the sun.
the first ‘up close’ view of the rings were by pioneer 11 spacecraft which flew by saturn on september 1, 1971. saturn’s rings are made up of are billions of particles that range in size from tiny dust grains to objects as large as mountains.
there are another 6 objects in our solar system that are almost certainly dwarf planets and there may as many as 10, 000. of the dwarf planets only 2 have been visited by space probes, in 2015 nasa’s dawn and new horizons missions reached ceres and pluto respectively.
the international astronomical union’s definition of a dwarf planet is: a “dwarf planet” is a celestial body thatthe key difference is that a planet has cleared other objects in the area of its orbit while a dwarf planet has not.
see the planets and the dwarf planets pages for more information or click an image below to find out more about the solar system’s structure: choose one of the following to learn about different objects and events in the solar system: source: https: //solarsystem.
the average distance between objects in the asteroid belt is quite large.
other regions of the kuiper belt include a disk of scattered objects that are part of a population of worlds called trans-neptunian objects.
the oort cloud is a theorised shell of icy objects that lie beyond the kuiper belt, as such the facts detailed on this page are hypothetical.
the oort cloud is an extended shell of icy objects that exist in the outermost reaches of the solar system.
astronomers now refer to those primeval objects as a protoplanetary disk.
as the planets grew, and in particular as jupiter coalesced and migrated to its present position, its gravitational influence is thought to have scattered many icy objects out to their present position in the oort cloud.
the objects we see today are leftover from a time when the solar system formed 4.
earth and the other planets formed as objects in the early system smacked together and made larger worlds.
the process of collision and impact continues to this day, although with smaller objects (since all the larger ones became the planets we know).
they are called near-earth objects (neos) or potentially hazardous asteroids (phas).
most of the objects vaporize in our atmosphere, but some of the larger pieces (from pebbles to boulder-sized rocks) actually fall to the ground.
most of the objects come from asteroids, which are objects made of various types of rock and have existed since the origin of the solar system.
scientists classify these objects according to their chemical makeup (what chemicals exist in them), their isotopic compositions (the types of each chemical element they contain), and their mineralogy (the minerals they contain).
a galaxy is a massive, gravitationally bound system that consists of stars, stellar objects (such as brown dwarfs and neutron stars), nebulae, an interstellar medium of gas and dust, black holes, and an unknown component of dark matter.
it was discovered in 1781 by astronomer pierre méchain, and included as object number 101 in charles messier’s list of celestial objects.