browse an exciting collection of scientific, historical and cultural facts about space, galaxies, the planets and other objects in the solar system.
it is where all of the asteroids, comets, planets, stars, solar systems and galaxies in our universe are found.
there are 8 planets in our solar system, they are mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and neptune.
planets in our solar system can be divided into two main groups, terrestrial planets and gas giants.
planets that orbit other stars are referred to as exoplanets.
click on any planet below to find out more about it: the order of the planets from closest to the sun outwards is; mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and finally neptune.
planets are among the many worlds and smaller objects that orbit the sun.
gov/planets/overview/, https: //nssdc.
the four innermost planets of our solar system (mercury, venus, earth and mars) are called the “terrestrial” planets.
find out more about the inner planets by selecting one below:
earth is the third planet from the sun and is the largest of the terrestrial planets.
gov/planets/mars/overview/ , https: //nssdc.
gas giants are large planets that contain more than 10 times the mass of earth, they are also known as the jovian or outer planets.
find out more about the outer planets by selecting one below.
these are volatile elements heavier than hydrogen and helium, and were in ice form (mainly water) when the planets first formed.
astronomers have also determined that some exoplanets could be ice giants, as well.
it is two and a half times more massive than all the other planets in the solar system combined.
gov/planets/jupiter/overview/, https: //nssdc.
gov/planets/saturn/overview/, https: //nssdc.
there are 5 officially recognised dwarf planets in our solar system, they are ceres, pluto, haumea, makemake and eris.
with the exception of ceres, which is located in the asteroid belt, the other dwarf planets are found in the outer solar system.
there are another 6 objects in our solar system that are almost certainly dwarf planets and there may as many as 10, 000. of the dwarf planets only 2 have been visited by space probes, in 2015 nasa’s dawn and new horizons missions reached ceres and pluto respectively.
dwarf planets share many of the same characteristics as planets though there is one significant difference.
the order of the dwarf planets from closest to sun outwards is ceres, pluto, haumea, makemake, with eris being the furthest from the sun.
ceres is the smallest of the bodies current classified as dwarf planets with a diameter of 950km.
haumea is the third closest dwarf planet from the sun and is unique in its elongated shape making it the least spherical of the dwarf planets.
makemake was discovered on march 31st 2005 and was recognized as a dwarf planet by the international astronomical union (iau) in july 2008. until april 2016 makemake was thought to be the only one of the four outer dwarf planets to not have any moons.
eris’ discovery promoted discussion that eventually lead to the classification of ‘dwarf planets’.
this eventually formed the planets and other bodies of the solar system.
see the planets and the dwarf planets pages for more information or click an image below to find out more about the solar system’s structure: choose one of the following to learn about different objects and events in the solar system: source: https: //solarsystem.
it also is home to the known dwarf planets pluto, haumea and makemake.
the kuiper-edgeworth belt is named for the astronomers gerard kuiper, who theorized about a disk of material in the outer reaches of the solar system, and kenneth edgeworth, who had the idea that the outer solar system contained a number of small bodies, perhaps left over from the formation of the sun and planets.
this cloud of particles is theorized to be the remains of the disc of material that formed the sun and planets.
as the planets grew, and in particular as jupiter coalesced and migrated to its present position, its gravitational influence is thought to have scattered many icy objects out to their present position in the oort cloud.
the planetary science community refers to them as minor planets, a general term applied to solar system bodies smaller than moons.
asteroids are clues to the formation of the rocky planets of our solar system.
earth and the other planets formed as objects in the early system smacked together and made larger worlds.
the process of collision and impact continues to this day, although with smaller objects (since all the larger ones became the planets we know).
these are rocky minor planets, and astronomers have observed them since the 1800s.
these types of meteorites date back to the formation of the sun and planets, and are among the most primitive solar system materials around.
there are more than 194 moons of the various planets, dwarf planets in the solar system.
the planets mercury and venus do not have any moons and neither does the dwarf planet ceres.
phobos & deimosjupiter is swarming with at least 79 moons in orbit around it, the second largest number of natural satellites around any of the planets.
gov/planets/io, http: //nssdc.
gov/planets/europa, http: //nssdc.
gov/planets/ganymede, http: //nssdc.
gov/planets/io, http: //nssdc.
gov/planets/enceladus, http: //nssdc.
gov/planets/rhea, http: //nssdc.
gov/planets/titan, http: //nssdc.