browse an exciting collection of scientific, historical and cultural facts about space, galaxies, the planets and other objects in the solar system.
it is where all of the asteroids, comets, planets, stars, solar systems and galaxies in our universe are found.
there are 8 planets in our solar system, they are mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and neptune.
planets in our solar system can be divided into two main groups, terrestrial planets and gas giants.
the largest planet in the solar system is jupiter, followed by saturn, uranus, neptune, earth, venus, mars with the smallest being mercury.
sources: https: //solarsystem.
the four innermost planets of our solar system (mercury, venus, earth and mars) are called the “terrestrial” planets.
the earth is the only planet in our solar system not to be named after a greek or roman deity.
mars is the fourth planet from the sun and is the second smallest planet in the solar system.
these moons are thought to be captured asteroids and are among the smallest natural satellites in the solar system.
mars has the largest volcano in the solar system – olympus mons.
sources: https: //solarsystem.
the four gas giants in our solar system are jupiter, saturn, uranus, and neptune.
in our solar system, uranus and neptune are often referred to as “ice giants” due to the higher amounts of such volatile they contain.
a ring system around a planet or asteroid is a disk made up of dust, chunks of material (ice, in the outer solar system), and small moons.
the largest ring system in the solar system is the one around saturn.
jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system and is the fifth planet out from the sun.
it is two and a half times more massive than all the other planets in the solar system combined.
jupiter’s atmosphere is the solar system’s largest planetary atmosphere.
sources: https: //solarsystem.
best known for its fabulous ring system, saturn is the sixth planet from the sun and the second largest in our solar system.
while all the gas giants in our solar system have rings none of them are as extensive or distinctive as saturn’s.
sources: https: //solarsystem.
neptune is the eighth planet from the sun, making it the most distant in the solar system.
this gas giant may have formed much closer to the sun in the early solar system history before migrating out to its current position.
its atmosphere also contains icy clouds and the fastest winds recorded in the solar system.
there are 5 officially recognised dwarf planets in our solar system, they are ceres, pluto, haumea, makemake and eris.
with the exception of ceres, which is located in the asteroid belt, the other dwarf planets are found in the outer solar system.
there are another 6 objects in our solar system that are almost certainly dwarf planets and there may as many as 10, 000. of the dwarf planets only 2 have been visited by space probes, in 2015 nasa’s dawn and new horizons missions reached ceres and pluto respectively.
the largest dwarf planet in the solar system is pluto followed by eris, makemake, haumea, with the smallest being ceres.
ceres is the closest dwarf planet to the sun and is located in the asteroid belt, between mars and jupiter, making it the only dwarf planet in the inner solar system.
sources: https: //solarsystem.
makemake is the second furthest dwarf planet from the sun and is the third largest dwarf planet in the solar system.
the solar system was formed approximately 4.
this eventually formed the planets and other bodies of the solar system.
see the planets and the dwarf planets pages for more information or click an image below to find out more about the solar system’s structure: choose one of the following to learn about different objects and events in the solar system: source: https: //solarsystem.
gov/solar-system/our-solar-system/overview/ last updated: february 2021, first published: june 2012author: chris jones
the sun is the star at the centre of our solar system.
it is an almost perfect sphere of super-hot gases whose gravity holds the solar system together.
intense solar flares can interfere with radio communications on earth.
sources: https: //solarsystem.
gov/solar-system/sun/overview/, https: //www.
a solar eclipse is a natural event that takes place on earth when the moon moves in its orbit between earth and the sun (this is also known as an occultation).
safety note: do not ever look at the sun directly during an eclipse unless it is during a total solar eclipse.
a total solar eclipse occurs when the moon completely blocks the solar disk.
in a total solar eclipse, the narrowest part of the path (where the sun is completely blocked and the moon casts its darkest shadow (called the umbra)) is called the “zone of totality”.
observers in this path see a darkened sun (often described as a “hole in the sky”) with the ghostly glow of the solar corona extending out to space.
if the sun is active, observers can also see solar prominences, loops, and flares during totality.
a total solar eclipse is the only time when it is safe to look directly at the sun.
all other solar observations (even in partial phases) require special solar filters so that you do not harm your eyes.
total solar eclipses have not always been visible from earth.
however, the moon’s orbit will continue to widen, and in perhaps 600 million years, total solar eclipses will no longer occur.
not every solar eclipse is a total one.
a partial solar eclipse occurs when earth moves through the lunar penumbra (the lighter part of the moon’s shadow) as the moon moves between earth and the sun.
the moon does not block the entire solar disk, as seen from earth.
there are several places online where you can get up-to-date calendars for all the types of solar eclipses.
the vast majority of asteroids in the solar system are found in a region of the solar system out beyond mars.
others orbit in near-earth space and a few migrate or are thrown out to the outer solar system by gravitational interactions.
the solar system contains many different types of asteroids, grouped by the minerals they contain.
the kuiper belt (sometimes referred to as the kuiper-edgeworth belt) is an area of the outer solar system that is estimated to stretch across 20 astronomical units (au) of space.
it contains small solar system bodies made mostly of ices.
the kuiper-edgeworth belt is named for the astronomers gerard kuiper, who theorized about a disk of material in the outer reaches of the solar system, and kenneth edgeworth, who had the idea that the outer solar system contained a number of small bodies, perhaps left over from the formation of the sun and planets.
the oort cloud is an extended shell of icy objects that exist in the outermost reaches of the solar system.
the most likely theory is that the material now in the oort cloud probably formed closer to the young sun in the earliest epochs of solar system formation.
asteroids are small, rocky solar system bodies that populate interplanetary space out to the orbit of jupiter.
the planetary science community refers to them as minor planets, a general term applied to solar system bodies smaller than moons.
asteroids are mainly made of materials left over from the formation of the inner solar system words.
these categories indicate how far from the sun they formed in the early solar system.
asteroids are clues to the formation of the rocky planets of our solar system.
the objects we see today are leftover from a time when the solar system formed 4.
a comet is a very small solar system body made mostly of ices mixed with smaller amounts of dust and rock.
the mixture of ice crystals and dust blows away from the comet nucleus in the solar wind, creating a pair of tails.
a plasma tail also forms when molecules of gas are “excited” by interaction with the solar wind.
comets normally orbit the sun, and have their origins in the oort cloud and kuiper belt regions of the outer solar system.
there are many misconceptions about comets, which are simply pieces of solar system ices travelling in orbit around the sun.
it returns to the inner solar system once every 76 years.
most of the objects come from asteroids, which are objects made of various types of rock and have existed since the origin of the solar system.
these fragments may also be leftover comet debris, or were ejected in collisions between other solar system bodies such as the moon or mars.
these types of meteorites date back to the formation of the sun and planets, and are among the most primitive solar system materials around.
there are more than 194 moons of the various planets, dwarf planets in the solar system.
these moons are thought to be captured asteroids and are among the smallest natural satellites in the solar system.
6 billion years ago around some 30–50 million years after the formation of the solar system.
gov/catalog/pia02308profile – http: //solarsystem.
europa is the smallest of jupiter’s galilean moons and the second closest, however it is still the sixth largest moon in the solar system.
is/data/europa/profile – http: //solarsystem.
ganymede is jupiter’s largest moon and also the largest moon in the solar system.
aid=11173profile – http: //solarsystem.
gov/catalog/pia03456profile – http: //solarsystem.
html profile – http: //solarsystem.
rhea is saturn’s second largest moon and is the ninth largest moon in the solar system.
gov/catalog/pia07763profile – http: //solarsystem.
titan is the saturn’s largest moon and is the second largest moon in our solar system.
htmlprofile – http: //solarsystem.