total solar eclipses have not always been visible from earth.
when the moon is farther away in its orbit than usual, it appears too small to completely cover the sun’s disk.
if you could stand on an asteroid and look around, the next one would be too far away to see very well.
the oort cloud is very distant from the sun and it can be disrupted by the nearby passage of a star, nebula, or by actions in the disk of the milky way.
the cloud itself stretches out almost a quarter of the way to the nearest star, proxima centauri.
when a comet is heated by the sun, its ices begin to sublimate (similar to the way dry ice “fizzes” when you leave it in sunlight).
the mixture of ice crystals and dust blows away from the comet nucleus in the solar wind, creating a pair of tails.
the milky way galaxy is our home galaxy in the universe.
the milky way began forming around 12 billion years ago and is part of a group of about 50 galaxies called the local group.
sources: the milky way galaxy – skysurvey.
the andromeda galaxy (m31) is the closest large galaxy to the milky way and is one of a few galaxies that can be seen unaided from the earth.
5 billion years the andromeda galaxy and the milky way are expected to collide and the result will be a giant elliptical galaxy.
as the two galaxies merge, their gravitational interactions pull long tails of gas away from each other, and these tails are the sites of starburst activity.
the milky way is consuming gas that is flowing from the magellanic clouds (in the magellanic stream).
eventually these two smaller galaxies might collide with the milky way.
the pinwheel galaxy in the constellation ursa major (the greater bear) is a “grand design” spiral, meaning that it has well-defined spiral arms and dust lanes that extend all the way around the body of the galaxy.
the triangulum galaxy, also known as m33, is one of the closest spiral galaxies to the milky way.
it lies 3 million light-years away, in the constellation triangulum.
the whirlpool galaxy is a familiar one to stargazers and among the many close galaxy neighbours to our own milky way.
our milky way is a spiral, as is the rather close-by andromeda galaxy.
the most distant moon of neptune is called neso, and orbits so far away that it takes 26 years to make one trip around the planet.
the moon is in synchronous rotation with earth meaning the same side is always facing the earth.