a ring system around a planet or asteroid is a disk made up of dust, chunks of material (ice, in the outer solar system), and small moons.
the first ‘up close’ view of the rings were by pioneer 11 spacecraft which flew by saturn on september 1, 1971. saturn’s rings are made up of are billions of particles that range in size from tiny dust grains to objects as large as mountains.
the mass at its centre collected to form the sun and a flat disk of dust around it.
a comet is a very small solar system body made mostly of ices mixed with smaller amounts of dust and rock.
the mixture of ice crystals and dust blows away from the comet nucleus in the solar wind, creating a pair of tails.
the dust tail is what we normally see when we view comets from earth.
3 years and 9p/tempel (tempel 2), which was visited by the deep impact and stardust probes, and makes perihelion around the sun every 5.
very small meteoroids (the size of dust) are often referred to as micrometeoroids or space dust.
when earth’s orbit intersects the dust trail, we see more meteors flaring as the cometary debris encounters our planet’s atmosphere.
a galaxy is a massive, gravitationally bound system that consists of stars, stellar objects (such as brown dwarfs and neutron stars), nebulae, an interstellar medium of gas and dust, black holes, and an unknown component of dark matter.
as a true elliptical galaxy, m87 has no obvious dust lanes and very little evidence of star formation.
the pinwheel galaxy in the constellation ursa major (the greater bear) is a “grand design” spiral, meaning that it has well-defined spiral arms and dust lanes that extend all the way around the body of the galaxy.
its bright nucleus, large central bulge and spiral arms threaded through with a thick dust lane make it look a little like a hat from mexico.
the dust lane is a ring that circles the bulge of the galaxy, and it is rich with gas, dust, and hydrogen gas.
most ellipticals contain older, low-mass stars, and because they lack a great deal of star-making gas and dust clouds, there is little new star formation occurring in them.
like its sibling moon phobos, it has a dusty “regolith” covered surface, and is made of rocky material.