the formal definition of planet, as voted on by the international astronomical union in 2006, is as follows: a planet is a celestial body thatunder this definition, pluto is not a planet, but has been deemed a dwarf planet because it has not yet cleared its orbit.
there are 5 officially recognised dwarf planets in our solar system, they are ceres, pluto, haumea, makemake and eris.
with the exception of ceres, which is located in the asteroid belt, the other dwarf planets are found in the outer solar system.
there are another 6 objects in our solar system that are almost certainly dwarf planets and there may as many as 10, 000. of the dwarf planets only 2 have been visited by space probes, in 2015 nasa’s dawn and new horizons missions reached ceres and pluto respectively.
dwarf planets share many of the same characteristics as planets though there is one significant difference.
the international astronomical union’s definition of a dwarf planet is: a “dwarf planet” is a celestial body thatthe key difference is that a planet has cleared other objects in the area of its orbit while a dwarf planet has not.
the largest dwarf planet in the solar system is pluto followed by eris, makemake, haumea, with the smallest being ceres.
the order of the dwarf planets from closest to sun outwards is ceres, pluto, haumea, makemake, with eris being the furthest from the sun.
click a dwarf planet below to find out more about it:
ceres is the closest dwarf planet to the sun and is located in the asteroid belt, between mars and jupiter, making it the only dwarf planet in the inner solar system.
ceres is the smallest of the bodies current classified as dwarf planets with a diameter of 950km.
discovered in 1930, pluto is the second closest dwarf planet to the sun and was at one point classified as the ninth planet.
pluto is the largest dwarf planet but only the second most massive, with eris being the most massive.
haumea is the third closest dwarf planet from the sun and is unique in its elongated shape making it the least spherical of the dwarf planets.
makemake is the second furthest dwarf planet from the sun and is the third largest dwarf planet in the solar system.
makemake was discovered on march 31st 2005 and was recognized as a dwarf planet by the international astronomical union (iau) in july 2008. until april 2016 makemake was thought to be the only one of the four outer dwarf planets to not have any moons.
eris is the most distant dwarf planet from the sun and has the greatest mass.
eris is the second largest dwarf planet (very a close second to pluto) and at one point was considered for the position of the 10th planet.
eris’ discovery promoted discussion that eventually lead to the classification of ‘dwarf planets’.
see the planets and the dwarf planets pages for more information or click an image below to find out more about the solar system’s structure: choose one of the following to learn about different objects and events in the solar system: source: https: //solarsystem.
it also is home to the known dwarf planets pluto, haumea and makemake.
a galaxy is a massive, gravitationally bound system that consists of stars, stellar objects (such as brown dwarfs and neutron stars), nebulae, an interstellar medium of gas and dust, black holes, and an unknown component of dark matter.
examples of galaxies range from dwarfs with as few as ten million stars to giants with a hundred trillion stars or more, each orbiting through their galaxy.
andromeda is accompanied by 14 dwarf galaxies, including m32, m110, and possibly m33 (the triangulum galaxy).
the lmc (as it is known) is visible in earth’s southern hemisphere skies, along with its companion dwarf galaxy, the small magellanic cloud (smc).
there are some subgroups of ellipticals, including “dwarf ellipticals” with properties that put them somewhere between regular ellipticals and the tightly knit groups of stars called globular clusters.
they may show some bar structure, they may have active regions of star formation, and some smaller ones are listed as “dwarf irregulars”, very similar to the very earliest galaxies that formed about 13.
there are more than 194 moons of the various planets, dwarf planets in the solar system.
the planets mercury and venus do not have any moons and neither does the dwarf planet ceres.