start exploring below: space is the area beyond the upper limits of earth’s atmosphere.
there are 8 planets in our solar system, they are mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and neptune.
click on any planet below to find out more about it: the order of the planets from closest to the sun outwards is; mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and finally neptune.
the largest planet in the solar system is jupiter, followed by saturn, uranus, neptune, earth, venus, mars with the smallest being mercury.
the four innermost planets of our solar system (mercury, venus, earth and mars) are called the “terrestrial” planets.
the name comes from the word “telluric” derived from the latin words “terra” and “tellus”, used to refer to earth.
earth is the only one with liquid oceans, although mars may have had them in the past.
thirteen times a century mercury can be observed from the earth passing across the face of the sun in an event called a transit, the next will occur on the 9th may 2016.
venus is sometimes referred to as the earth’s sister planet due to their similar size and mass.
earth is the third planet from the sun and is the largest of the terrestrial planets.
the earth is the only planet in our solar system not to be named after a greek or roman deity.
the earth was formed approximately 4.
facts from leo: -70% of the earth’s surface is covered in water when astronauts first went into the space, they looked back at the earth with human eyes for the first time, and called our home the blue planet.
-earth is mostly iron, oxygen and silicon if you could separate the earth out into piles of material, you’d get 32.
of course, most of this iron is actually down at the core of the earth.
47% of the earth’s crust consists of oxygen.
-earth doesn’t take 24 hours to rotate on its axis it’s actually 23 hours, 56 minutes and 4 seconds.
this is the amount of time it takes for the earth to completely rotate around its axis; astronomers call this a sidereal day.
-a year on earth isn’t 365 days it’s actually 365.
-earth has 1 moon and 2 co-orbital satellites as you’re probably aware, earth has 1 moon (the moon).
but did you know there are 2 additional asteroids locked into a co-orbital orbits with earth?
3753 cruithne is 5 km across, and sometimes called earth’s second moon.
it doesn’t actually orbit the earth, but has a synchronized orbit with our home planet.
it has an orbit that makes it look like it’s following the earth in orbit, but it’s actually following its own, distinct path around the sun.
2002 aa29 is only 60 meters across, and makes a horseshoe orbit around the earth that brings it close to the planet every 95 years.
in about 600 years, it will appear to circle earth in a quasi-satellite orbit.
-the earth is not actually round in shape; in fact it is geoid.
this happens solely because the rotation of the earth which causes the bulge around the equator.
-the earth tilts at roughly 66 degrees.
-only 3% water of the earth is fresh, rest 97% salted.
-asia continent is covered 30% of the total earth land area, but represent 60% of the world’s population.
on earth, it would span the entire north american continent and beyond.
gas giants are large planets that contain more than 10 times the mass of earth, they are also known as the jovian or outer planets.
an ice giant planet is one that is at least ten times the mass of earth, and contains a higher percentage of what planetary scientists refer to as “ices”.
the red spot spins anticlockwise and takes six (earth) days to rotate completely.
the energy produced by the sun is essential for life on earth and is a driving force behind the earth’s weather.
intense solar flares can interfere with radio communications on earth.
a solar eclipse is a natural event that takes place on earth when the moon moves in its orbit between earth and the sun (this is also known as an occultation).
if the moon was only slightly closer to earth, and orbited in the same plane and its orbit was circular, we would see eclipses each month.
the lunar orbit is elliptical and tilted with respect to earth’s orbit, so we can only see up to 5 eclipses per year.
depending on the geometry of the sun, moon and earth, the sun can be totally blocked, or it can be partially blocked.
during an eclipse, the moon’s shadow (which is divided into two parts: the dark umbra and the lighter penumbra) moves across earth’s surface.
total solar eclipses have not always been visible from earth.
in the past, the moon was too close to earth and during eclipses it completely blotted out the sun’s disk.
a partial solar eclipse occurs when earth moves through the lunar penumbra (the lighter part of the moon’s shadow) as the moon moves between earth and the sun.
the moon does not block the entire solar disk, as seen from earth.
others orbit in near-earth space and a few migrate or are thrown out to the outer solar system by gravitational interactions.
planetary scientists estimate that if you could put all that material together that exists there today, it would make a tiny world smaller than earth’s moon.
earth and the other planets formed as objects in the early system smacked together and made larger worlds.
asteroids continue to come close to earth in their orbits.
they are called near-earth objects (neos) or potentially hazardous asteroids (phas).
if orbital conditions are right, it’s possible that a neo could crash to earth’s surface.
the chances of something hitting earth are very small, but also depend on the size and orbit of the object.
the dust tail is what we normally see when we view comets from earth.
earth is bombarded with millions of tons of space material each day.
if the object survives the trip and falls to earth’s surface, it is known as a meteorite.
many of these fall into the ocean (since about 71% of earth’s surface is covered by water).
meteorites are fragments of asteroids that fall to ground on earth.
for example, pallasite meteorites are a class of stony-iron meteorites that are made mostly of nickel and iron, but also contain olivine crystals (a commonly found crystal on earth).
over the course of earth’s history, many meteorites (large and small) have fallen to our planet’s surface.
the allende meteorite fell to earth in a fireball on february 8, 1969. it was originally about the size of a car, and pieces were strewn across the mexican state of chihuahua.
when earth’s orbit intersects the dust trail, we see more meteors flaring as the cometary debris encounters our planet’s atmosphere.
the perseids occur in mid-august when earth encounters the debris trail from comet swift-tuttle.
the geminid meteor shower occurs in december, when earth crosses the path of the asteroid 3200 phaethon.
in late april, the lyrids bring pieces of comet c/1861 g1/thatcher back to earth, which seem to radiate from the constellation lyra.
the galactic centre, which is located about 26, 000 light-years from earth, contains at least one supermassive black hole (called sagittarius a*), and is crossed by a bar.
the andromeda galaxy (m31) is the closest large galaxy to the milky way and is one of a few galaxies that can be seen unaided from the earth.
the massive galaxy m87 is the most spectacular example of an elliptical galaxy we can see from earth.
the lmc (as it is known) is visible in earth’s southern hemisphere skies, along with its companion dwarf galaxy, the small magellanic cloud (smc).
the sombrero galaxy is one of the most unusual looking barred spiral galaxies visible from earth.
the best example of an irregular that can be seen from earth is the small magellanic cloud.
the earth has a single moon; the moon sometime also referred to as luna.
the moon (or luna) is the earth’s only natural satellite and was formed 4.
the moon is in synchronous rotation with earth meaning the same side is always facing the earth.
titan is covered with a thick atmosphere that some consider to be similar to that of early earth.