browse an exciting collection of scientific, historical and cultural facts about space, galaxies, the planets and other objects in the solar system.
it is where all of the asteroids, comets, planets, stars, solar systems and galaxies in our universe are found.
examples of galaxies range from dwarfs with as few as ten million stars to giants with a hundred trillion stars or more, each orbiting through their galaxy.
there are probably more than 170 billion galaxies in the observable universe.
astronomers sort galaxies into three main types by their shapes: spirals, ellipticals, and irregulars, and further divide them into subtypes based on their particular characteristics.
find out more about one of the galaxies by selecting it below.
the milky way began forming around 12 billion years ago and is part of a group of about 50 galaxies called the local group.
the andromeda galaxy is part of this group as are numerous smaller galaxies, including the magellanic clouds.
the local group itself is part of a larger gathering of galaxies called the virgo supercluster of galaxies.
the andromeda galaxy (m31) is the closest large galaxy to the milky way and is one of a few galaxies that can be seen unaided from the earth.
andromeda is accompanied by 14 dwarf galaxies, including m32, m110, and possibly m33 (the triangulum galaxy).
it likely formed from a recent merger between two other galaxies.
the antennae is a pair of spiral galaxies that are interacting and mingling their stars.
as the two galaxies merge, their gravitational interactions pull long tails of gas away from each other, and these tails are the sites of starburst activity.
in a few billion years, the cores of these two galaxies will be combined into one large core, with a supermassive black hole at its heart.
eventually these two smaller galaxies might collide with the milky way.
the sombrero galaxy is one of the most unusual looking barred spiral galaxies visible from earth.
the triangulum galaxy, also known as m33, is one of the closest spiral galaxies to the milky way.
all three are members of the local group, a collection of about 50 galaxies in our neighbourhood of space.
the most widely used classification scheme for galaxies is based on one devised by edwin p. hubble and further refined by astronomer gerard de vaucouleurs.
spiral galaxies are the most common type in the universe.
a large majority of galaxies have these bars, and astronomers study them to understand what function they play within the galaxy.
elliptical galaxies are roughly egg-shaped (ellipsoidal or ovoid) found largely in galaxy clusters and smaller compact groups.
irregular galaxies are as their name suggests: irregular in shape.
they may show some bar structure, they may have active regions of star formation, and some smaller ones are listed as “dwarf irregulars”, very similar to the very earliest galaxies that formed about 13.