the largest planet in the solar system is jupiter, followed by saturn, uranus, neptune, earth, venus, mars with the smallest being mercury.
venus is the second planet from the sun and is the second largest terrestrial planet.
earth is the third planet from the sun and is the largest of the terrestrial planets.
mars has the largest volcano in the solar system – olympus mons.
the largest ring system in the solar system is the one around saturn.
jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system and is the fifth planet out from the sun.
jupiter’s atmosphere is the solar system’s largest planetary atmosphere.
best known for its fabulous ring system, saturn is the sixth planet from the sun and the second largest in our solar system.
the largest dwarf planet in the solar system is pluto followed by eris, makemake, haumea, with the smallest being ceres.
pluto is the largest dwarf planet but only the second most massive, with eris being the most massive.
makemake is the second furthest dwarf planet from the sun and is the third largest dwarf planet in the solar system.
eris is the second largest dwarf planet (very a close second to pluto) and at one point was considered for the position of the 10th planet.
the four largest asteroids in the belt are ceres, vesta, pallas, and hygiea.
5 tons and is the largest ever found in the united states.
phobos & deimosjupiter is swarming with at least 79 moons in orbit around it, the second largest number of natural satellites around any of the planets.
jupiter’s 4 largest moons; ganymede, callisto, io and europa are known as the galilean moons, named after their discoverer galileo galilei.
the five largest are puck, miranda, ariel, umbriel, titania, and oberon.
the five largest moons are rounded, and four of them show some kind of internal activity which shapes their surfaces.
william herschel who discovered uranus in 1781 also observed the largest two moons, titania and oberon, in 1787. notable moons – miranda, titania, ariel, umbriel & oberonother moons – cordelia, ophelia, bianca, cressida, desdemona, juliet, portia, rosalind, cupid, belinda, perdita, puck, mab, francisco, caliban, stephano, trinculo, sycorax, margaret, prospero, setebos & ferdinandneptune has at least 14 moons.
the largest of these, triton was discovered by william lassell in 1846 one day after the discovery of neptune, it was more than 100 years later before a second moon was found.
europa is the smallest of jupiter’s galilean moons and the second closest, however it is still the sixth largest moon in the solar system.
ganymede is jupiter’s largest moon and also the largest moon in the solar system.
callisto is the second largest moon in the jupiter system and is nearly the size of mercury.
enceladus is the sixth-largest moon of saturn and, after titan, one of the most-studied worlds in the system.
rhea is saturn’s second largest moon and is the ninth largest moon in the solar system.
titan is the saturn’s largest moon and is the second largest moon in our solar system.