browse an exciting collection of scientific, historical and cultural facts about space, galaxies, the planets and other objects in the solar system.
it is where all of the asteroids, comets, planets, stars, solar systems and galaxies in our universe are found.
there are 8 planets in our solar system, they are mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and neptune.
planets in our solar system can be divided into two main groups, terrestrial planets and gas giants.
planets that orbit other stars are referred to as exoplanets.
click on any planet below to find out more about it: the order of the planets from closest to the sun outwards is; mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and finally neptune.
the largest planet in the solar system is jupiter, followed by saturn, uranus, neptune, earth, venus, mars with the smallest being mercury.
the table below shows the size of the planet, how far it is from the sun and how long it takes to complete a single orbit.
planets are among the many worlds and smaller objects that orbit the sun.
the formal definition of planet, as voted on by the international astronomical union in 2006, is as follows: a planet is a celestial body thatunder this definition, pluto is not a planet, but has been deemed a dwarf planet because it has not yet cleared its orbit.
this definition is under discussion, particularly by members of the planetary science community, and it may yet be further refined.
gov/planets/overview/, https: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/last updated: july 2019, first published: june 2012author: chris jones
the four innermost planets of our solar system (mercury, venus, earth and mars) are called the “terrestrial” planets.
find out more about the inner planets by selecting one below:
mercury is the closest planet to the sun and due to its proximity it is not easily seen except during twilight.
venus is the second planet from the sun and is the second largest terrestrial planet.
venus is sometimes referred to as the earth’s sister planet due to their similar size and mass.
earth is the third planet from the sun and is the largest of the terrestrial planets.
the earth is the only planet in our solar system not to be named after a greek or roman deity.
54 billion years ago and is the only known planet to support life.
facts from leo: -70% of the earth’s surface is covered in water when astronauts first went into the space, they looked back at the earth with human eyes for the first time, and called our home the blue planet.
70% of our planet is covered with oceans.
it doesn’t actually orbit the earth, but has a synchronized orbit with our home planet.
2002 aa29 is only 60 meters across, and makes a horseshoe orbit around the earth that brings it close to the planet every 95 years.
mars is the fourth planet from the sun and is the second smallest planet in the solar system.
named after the roman god of war, mars is also often described as the “red planet” due to its reddish appearance.
mars is a terrestrial planet with a thin atmosphere composed primarily of carbon dioxide.
this entire region lies over a hotspot, a place in the planet’s crust that allows magma from deep inside to flow out to the surface.
gov/planets/mars/overview/ , https: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/marsfact.
gas giants are large planets that contain more than 10 times the mass of earth, they are also known as the jovian or outer planets.
find out more about the outer planets by selecting one below.
an ice giant planet is one that is at least ten times the mass of earth, and contains a higher percentage of what planetary scientists refer to as “ices”.
these are volatile elements heavier than hydrogen and helium, and were in ice form (mainly water) when the planets first formed.
astronomers have also determined that some exoplanets could be ice giants, as well.
a ring system around a planet or asteroid is a disk made up of dust, chunks of material (ice, in the outer solar system), and small moons.
jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system and is the fifth planet out from the sun.
it is two and a half times more massive than all the other planets in the solar system combined.
jupiter’s atmosphere is the solar system’s largest planetary atmosphere.
gov/planets/jupiter/overview/, https: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/jupiterfact.
planetary.
best known for its fabulous ring system, saturn is the sixth planet from the sun and the second largest in our solar system.
these are made up of chunks of ice and rock, believed to have come from asteroids comets or even moons, that broke apart before they reached the planet.
winds in the upper atmosphere can reach speeds of 500 metres a second, these combined with heat rising from within the planet’s interior cause yellow and gold bands.
gov/planets/saturn/overview/, https: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/saturnfact.
uranus is the seventh planet from the sun.
it’s not visible to the naked eye, and became the first planet discovered with the use of a telescope.
neptune is the eighth planet from the sun, making it the most distant in the solar system.
it was an incredibly large rotating storm system with winds of up to 1, 500 miles per hour, the strongest winds recorded on any planet.
how such powerful winds were discovered on a planet so far from the sun is still considered a mystery to this day.
data from the voyager 2 spacecraft also showed that the great dark spot varied significantly in size during their brief pass of the planet.
there are 5 officially recognised dwarf planets in our solar system, they are ceres, pluto, haumea, makemake and eris.
with the exception of ceres, which is located in the asteroid belt, the other dwarf planets are found in the outer solar system.
there are another 6 objects in our solar system that are almost certainly dwarf planets and there may as many as 10, 000. of the dwarf planets only 2 have been visited by space probes, in 2015 nasa’s dawn and new horizons missions reached ceres and pluto respectively.
dwarf planets share many of the same characteristics as planets though there is one significant difference.
the international astronomical union’s definition of a dwarf planet is: a “dwarf planet” is a celestial body thatthe key difference is that a planet has cleared other objects in the area of its orbit while a dwarf planet has not.
the largest dwarf planet in the solar system is pluto followed by eris, makemake, haumea, with the smallest being ceres.
the order of the dwarf planets from closest to sun outwards is ceres, pluto, haumea, makemake, with eris being the furthest from the sun.
click a dwarf planet below to find out more about it:
ceres is the closest dwarf planet to the sun and is located in the asteroid belt, between mars and jupiter, making it the only dwarf planet in the inner solar system.
ceres is the smallest of the bodies current classified as dwarf planets with a diameter of 950km.
planetary.
discovered in 1930, pluto is the second closest dwarf planet to the sun and was at one point classified as the ninth planet.
pluto is the largest dwarf planet but only the second most massive, with eris being the most massive.
haumea is the third closest dwarf planet from the sun and is unique in its elongated shape making it the least spherical of the dwarf planets.
makemake is the second furthest dwarf planet from the sun and is the third largest dwarf planet in the solar system.
makemake was discovered on march 31st 2005 and was recognized as a dwarf planet by the international astronomical union (iau) in july 2008. until april 2016 makemake was thought to be the only one of the four outer dwarf planets to not have any moons.
eris is the most distant dwarf planet from the sun and has the greatest mass.
eris is the second largest dwarf planet (very a close second to pluto) and at one point was considered for the position of the 10th planet.
eris’ discovery promoted discussion that eventually lead to the classification of ‘dwarf planets’.
this eventually formed the planets and other bodies of the solar system.
see the planets and the dwarf planets pages for more information or click an image below to find out more about the solar system’s structure: choose one of the following to learn about different objects and events in the solar system: source: https: //solarsystem.
there was a theory once that if you combined all the asteroids they would make up the missing “fifth” rocky planet.
planetary scientists estimate that if you could put all that material together that exists there today, it would make a tiny world smaller than earth’s moon.
the abundances of precious metals such as nickel, iron, and titanium (to name a few), and water make asteroids an attractive target for mining operations when humans decide to expand their presence through interplanetary space.
beginning 2013, companies interested in asteroid mining began announcing their plans for future operations on distant planetoids.
it also is home to the known dwarf planets pluto, haumea and makemake.
the kuiper-edgeworth belt is named for the astronomers gerard kuiper, who theorized about a disk of material in the outer reaches of the solar system, and kenneth edgeworth, who had the idea that the outer solar system contained a number of small bodies, perhaps left over from the formation of the sun and planets.
this cloud of particles is theorized to be the remains of the disc of material that formed the sun and planets.
astronomers now refer to those primeval objects as a protoplanetary disk.
as the planets grew, and in particular as jupiter coalesced and migrated to its present position, its gravitational influence is thought to have scattered many icy objects out to their present position in the oort cloud.
asteroids are small, rocky solar system bodies that populate interplanetary space out to the orbit of jupiter.
the planetary science community refers to them as minor planets, a general term applied to solar system bodies smaller than moons.
asteroids are clues to the formation of the rocky planets of our solar system.
earth and the other planets formed as objects in the early system smacked together and made larger worlds.
the process of collision and impact continues to this day, although with smaller objects (since all the larger ones became the planets we know).
depending on the size of the impactor, the damage to our planet (and us) could range from very little to catastrophic.
these are rocky minor planets, and astronomers have observed them since the 1800s.
pallas has a very irregular shape, and may be what’s left of an early protoplanet.
vesta is very bright and is likely the leftover of a rocky protoplanet.
over the course of earth’s history, many meteorites (large and small) have fallen to our planet’s surface.
these types of meteorites date back to the formation of the sun and planets, and are among the most primitive solar system materials around.
when earth’s orbit intersects the dust trail, we see more meteors flaring as the cometary debris encounters our planet’s atmosphere.
there are more than 194 moons of the various planets, dwarf planets in the solar system.
the planets mercury and venus do not have any moons and neither does the dwarf planet ceres.
find out the number of moons each planet has and their names below.
phobos & deimosjupiter is swarming with at least 79 moons in orbit around it, the second largest number of natural satellites around any of the planets.
the most distant moon of neptune is called neso, and orbits so far away that it takes 26 years to make one trip around the planet.
gov/planets/io, http: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/joviansatfact.
gov/planets/europa, http: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/joviansatfact.
gov/planets/ganymede, http: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/joviansatfact.
gov/planets/io, http: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/joviansatfact.
gov/planets/enceladus, http: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/saturniansatfact.
gov/planets/rhea, http: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/saturniansatfact.
if it were not orbiting saturn, titan could be considered a planet as it is larger than mercury.
gov/planets/titan, http: //nssdc.
gov/planetary/factsheet/saturniansatfact.