venus is the second planet from the sun and is the second largest terrestrial planet.
-earth doesn’t take 24 hours to rotate on its axis it’s actually 23 hours, 56 minutes and 4 seconds.
now wait a second, that means a day is 4 minutes shorter than we think it is.
3753 cruithne is 5 km across, and sometimes called earth’s second moon.
mars is the fourth planet from the sun and is the second smallest planet in the solar system.
best known for its fabulous ring system, saturn is the sixth planet from the sun and the second largest in our solar system.
winds in the upper atmosphere can reach speeds of 500 metres a second, these combined with heat rising from within the planet’s interior cause yellow and gold bands.
discovered in 1930, pluto is the second closest dwarf planet to the sun and was at one point classified as the ninth planet.
pluto is the largest dwarf planet but only the second most massive, with eris being the most massive.
makemake is the second furthest dwarf planet from the sun and is the third largest dwarf planet in the solar system.
eris is the second largest dwarf planet (very a close second to pluto) and at one point was considered for the position of the 10th planet.
so, for example, the second periodic comet found in the first half of january, 2015 would be called p/2015 a2.
phobos & deimosjupiter is swarming with at least 79 moons in orbit around it, the second largest number of natural satellites around any of the planets.
the largest of these, triton was discovered by william lassell in 1846 one day after the discovery of neptune, it was more than 100 years later before a second moon was found.
io is the innermost and the second smallest of the four galilean moons.
europa is the smallest of jupiter’s galilean moons and the second closest, however it is still the sixth largest moon in the solar system.
callisto is the second largest moon in the jupiter system and is nearly the size of mercury.
rhea is saturn’s second largest moon and is the ninth largest moon in the solar system.
titan is the saturn’s largest moon and is the second largest moon in our solar system.