astronomers sort galaxies into three main types by their shapes: spirals, ellipticals, and irregulars, and further divide them into subtypes based on their particular characteristics.
it is a fairly typical barred spiral with four major arms in its disk, at least one spur, and a newly discovered outer arm.
the antennae is a pair of spiral galaxies that are interacting and mingling their stars.
it may once have been a spiral.
the pinwheel galaxy in the constellation ursa major (the greater bear) is a “grand design” spiral, meaning that it has well-defined spiral arms and dust lanes that extend all the way around the body of the galaxy.
the sombrero galaxy is one of the most unusual looking barred spiral galaxies visible from earth.
its bright nucleus, large central bulge and spiral arms threaded through with a thick dust lane make it look a little like a hat from mexico.
the triangulum galaxy, also known as m33, is one of the closest spiral galaxies to the milky way.
the closest spiral is the andromeda galaxy, at a distance of 2.
because of its shape, it was the first galaxy to be classified as a spiral by astronomers.
today, it interests astronomers due to its spiral structure and the interaction it appears to be having with its near neighbour, m51b.
it uses the three main types: then further breaks them down by specific characteristics (openness of spirals, size and extent of bars, size of galactic bulges).
spiral galaxies are the most common type in the universe.
our milky way is a spiral, as is the rather close-by andromeda galaxy.
spirals are large rotating disks of stars and nebulae, surrounded by a shell of dark matter.
many spirals have a halo of stars and star clusters arrayed above and below the disk.
spirals that have large, bright bars of stars and material cutting across their central sections are called “barred spirals”.
in addition to bars, many spirals may also contain supermassive black holes in their cores.
subgroups of spirals are defined by the characteristics of their bulges, spiral arms, and how tightly wound those arms are.
irregulars usually do not have enough structure to characterise them as spirals or ellipticals.