click on any planet below to find out more about it: the order of the planets from closest to the sun outwards is; mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus and finally neptune.
the table below shows the size of the planet, how far it is from the sun and how long it takes to complete a single orbit.
planets are among the many worlds and smaller objects that orbit the sun.
mercury is the closest planet to the sun and due to its proximity it is not easily seen except during twilight.
for every two orbits of the sun, mercury completes three rotations about its axis and up until 1965 it was thought that the same side of mercury constantly faced the sun.
thirteen times a century mercury can be observed from the earth passing across the face of the sun in an event called a transit, the next will occur on the 9th may 2016.
venus is the second planet from the sun and is the second largest terrestrial planet.
earth is the third planet from the sun and is the largest of the terrestrial planets.
it has an orbit that makes it look like it’s following the earth in orbit, but it’s actually following its own, distinct path around the sun.
mars is the fourth planet from the sun and is the second smallest planet in the solar system.
jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system and is the fifth planet out from the sun.
it is composed of hydrogen (90%) and helium (10%), in roughly the same proportions found in the sun .
best known for its fabulous ring system, saturn is the sixth planet from the sun and the second largest in our solar system.
uranus is the seventh planet from the sun.
it is often described as “rolling around the sun on its side.
neptune is the eighth planet from the sun, making it the most distant in the solar system.
this gas giant may have formed much closer to the sun in the early solar system history before migrating out to its current position.
how such powerful winds were discovered on a planet so far from the sun is still considered a mystery to this day.
the order of the dwarf planets from closest to sun outwards is ceres, pluto, haumea, makemake, with eris being the furthest from the sun.
ceres is the closest dwarf planet to the sun and is located in the asteroid belt, between mars and jupiter, making it the only dwarf planet in the inner solar system.
discovered in 1930, pluto is the second closest dwarf planet to the sun and was at one point classified as the ninth planet.
haumea is the third closest dwarf planet from the sun and is unique in its elongated shape making it the least spherical of the dwarf planets.
makemake is the second furthest dwarf planet from the sun and is the third largest dwarf planet in the solar system.
eris is the most distant dwarf planet from the sun and has the greatest mass.
the mass at its centre collected to form the sun and a flat disk of dust around it.
the sun is the star at the centre of our solar system.
the energy produced by the sun is essential for life on earth and is a driving force behind the earth’s weather.
sunspots are areas of the sun’s surface that appear darker than the surrounding areas, this is because they are cooler.
when the magnetic fields near sunspots cross, tangle or are reorganised, an explosion of energy can be released.
gov/solar-system/sun/overview/, https: //www.
gov/sun, first published: june 2012last updated: may 2020author: chris jones
a solar eclipse is a natural event that takes place on earth when the moon moves in its orbit between earth and the sun (this is also known as an occultation).
it happens at new moon, when the sun and moon are in conjunction with each other.
depending on the geometry of the sun, moon and earth, the sun can be totally blocked, or it can be partially blocked.
safety note: do not ever look at the sun directly during an eclipse unless it is during a total solar eclipse.
the bright light of the sun can damage your eyes very quickly.
in a total solar eclipse, the narrowest part of the path (where the sun is completely blocked and the moon casts its darkest shadow (called the umbra)) is called the “zone of totality”.
observers in this path see a darkened sun (often described as a “hole in the sky”) with the ghostly glow of the solar corona extending out to space.
a phenomenon called “bailey’s beads” often appears as sunlight shines out through valleys on the lunar surface.
if the sun is active, observers can also see solar prominences, loops, and flares during totality.
a total solar eclipse is the only time when it is safe to look directly at the sun.
in the past, the moon was too close to earth and during eclipses it completely blotted out the sun’s disk.
when the moon is farther away in its orbit than usual, it appears too small to completely cover the sun’s disk.
during such an event, a bright ring of sunlight shines around the moon.
however, even though the sun is mostly covered by the moon, enough bright sunlight escapes during annularity that observers cannot ever look at the sun directly.
a partial solar eclipse occurs when earth moves through the lunar penumbra (the lighter part of the moon’s shadow) as the moon moves between earth and the sun.
depending on your location during a partial eclipse, you might see anything from a small sliver of the sun being blotted out to a nearly total eclipse.
to view any eclipse safely, use approved filters or use an indirect method of viewing, such as projecting sunlight through a telescope and onto a white piece of paper or cardboard.
never look at the sun through a telescope unless it has the appropriate filter.
2 astronomical units (au) from the sun.
the kuiper-edgeworth belt is named for the astronomers gerard kuiper, who theorized about a disk of material in the outer reaches of the solar system, and kenneth edgeworth, who had the idea that the outer solar system contained a number of small bodies, perhaps left over from the formation of the sun and planets.
this region of space is cold enough to support the existence of volatiles more easily than areas closer to the sun.
the kuiper belt extends from roughly the orbit of neptune (at 30 au out to about 55 astronomical units from the sun.
this cloud of particles is theorized to be the remains of the disc of material that formed the sun and planets.
the most likely theory is that the material now in the oort cloud probably formed closer to the young sun in the earliest epochs of solar system formation.
the oort cloud is very distant from the sun and it can be disrupted by the nearby passage of a star, nebula, or by actions in the disk of the milky way.
those actions knock cometary nuclei out of their orbits, and send them on a headlong rush toward the sun.
the inner limits of the oort cloud begin at about 2, 000 au from the sun.
most of them orbit the sun between mars and jupiter, although there are groups of them that orbit closer.
these categories indicate how far from the sun they formed in the early solar system.
when a comet is heated by the sun, its ices begin to sublimate (similar to the way dry ice “fizzes” when you leave it in sunlight).
comets normally orbit the sun, and have their origins in the oort cloud and kuiper belt regions of the outer solar system.
there are many misconceptions about comets, which are simply pieces of solar system ices travelling in orbit around the sun.
3 years and 9p/tempel (tempel 2), which was visited by the deep impact and stardust probes, and makes perihelion around the sun every 5.
these types of meteorites date back to the formation of the sun and planets, and are among the most primitive solar system materials around.