planets in our solar system can be divided into two main groups, terrestrial planets and gas giants.
for every two orbits of the sun, mercury completes three rotations about its axis and up until 1965 it was thought that the same side of mercury constantly faced the sun.
mars has two small moons, phobos and deimos.
mars has has a very primitive form of plate tectonics, and the action of two plates past each other began splitting the surface some 3.
it is two and a half times more massive than all the other planets in the solar system combined.
the f ring is kept in place by two of saturn’s moons, prometheus and pandora, these are referred to as ‘shepherd moons’.
neptune’s atmosphere is subdivided into the lower troposphere and the stratosphere with the tropopause being the boundary between the two.
during an eclipse, the moon’s shadow (which is divided into two parts: the dark umbra and the lighter penumbra) moves across earth’s surface.
it likely formed from a recent merger between two other galaxies.
as the two galaxies merge, their gravitational interactions pull long tails of gas away from each other, and these tails are the sites of starburst activity.
in a few billion years, the cores of these two galaxies will be combined into one large core, with a supermassive black hole at its heart.
eventually these two smaller galaxies might collide with the milky way.
the moonmars has two moons called phobos and deimos.
two of saturn’s moons (janus & epimetheus) swap orbits every 4 years.
william herschel who discovered uranus in 1781 also observed the largest two moons, titania and oberon, in 1787. notable moons – miranda, titania, ariel, umbriel & oberonother moons – cordelia, ophelia, bianca, cressida, desdemona, juliet, portia, rosalind, cupid, belinda, perdita, puck, mab, francisco, caliban, stephano, trinculo, sycorax, margaret, prospero, setebos & ferdinandneptune has at least 14 moons.
phobos is one of the two moons of mars.
it is the larger of the two moons, and is heavily cratered and appears to have grooves and streaks of material along its sides.
deimos is the smaller of the two moons of mars.